welcome to slash forward
in this episode i'm going to remedy an
oversight by going back and reviewing a
relatively recent release that should be
on everybody's radar the 2018 sci-fi
horror film
annihilation if you've ever dreamed of
mixing up a cheeky little cocktail of
your dna to see what comes out
subscribe to the channel for some ideas
let's get to it
we open on lena in a quarantine room
being questioned by an authority figure
making vague references to her being
involved in some sort of
mission that went on for four months but
that felt like only several days to her
her entire away party is now deceased or
of an unknown status
and what do you know and this is her
story
we then transition to a meteor screaming
through the atti which is what i call
the atmosphere
touching down in a lighthouse and then
we take a 90 degree turn to catch up
with lena again
starting off a biology class and
poetically prepping some medical
students for a semester to be spent
attempting to unravel the mysteries of
cancerous growth
afterwards she is approached by her
colleague dan who is looking to invite
her to a social event hoping to get her
to come out of her shell a bit after
shutting herself
in due to her husband going missing one
year ago in her empty home we scan
across the decor
picking up that he was in the military
and watching her cry as she reminisces
about how much fun they used to have
just tickling
then while she's painting the bedroom
looking for a bit of closure and a fresh
start he goes ahead and wanders on in
searching internally for some sense of
familiarity she attempts to get a
debrief from kane
but he's not able to give many specifics
about his secret mission so she begins
probing deep
does the people there speak portuguese
or swahili or pashto
we all get it you know languages he
seems to have the same generalized
confusion we saw from her in the opening
and she learns that he doesn't remember
much other than appearing at the room
with the bed
where he found her then he takes a sip
of water and leaves behind a little
extra flavor we then find them racing
toward the hospital for treatment
but they get run off the road by what
may be police officers who then breach
the rear of the ambulance and drag them
off
lena wakes up in a medical facility
where she's comforted and
questioned by dr ventress the doctor is
huge on questions but
very small on answers until she feels
comfortable that lena didn't already
know
any sensitive information once confirmed
they go ahead and fill her in on all the
sensitive information
since she's an expert on genetics and
medicine and has some skin in the game
with her husband on the verge of death
she wants to help in any way she can so
dr ventress fully initiates her into the
club by showing her
from where the problem originates and
it's magnificent
we learn that the glowing blob they call
the shimmer has been growing for the
last
three years they've been setting up and
evacuating a progressively larger
perimeter as it expands
and every attempt to penetrate it has
failed as no party of explorers have
ever come back
leaving the experts pretty much holding
their dicks but now with kane's
appearance they're hoping there's a
chance to venture in and return with
some usable information
at the mess hall later some of the
grunts approach lena and try to make
nice
assuming that she's part of the team
anya invites her over to the ladies
table where she meets cassie and josie
we learn they all have backgrounds in
various intellectual fields and are
blowing off a little steam before their
mission
going into the shimmer they're part of a
new strategy since they've
previously only sent in military
meatheads who are either getting killed
by something inside
or going crazy and killing each other
they're trying an all-female group to
see how that works out with this
knowledge lina goes to make peace with
kane feeling that she knows why he felt
he needed to go in and also feeling like
she owes it to him to try to find some
answers with her biology and military
background she feels she'd be a
worthwhile addition to the team and
volunteers her services
before long the ladies are all geared up
with their proton packs heading toward
the shimmer
since this is exactly what they came to
do they only pause momentarily before
entering its comforting womb and then
lena wakes up disoriented in her tent
she stumbles out to find the rest of the
party nearby and none of them have any
memory of setting up
camp judging by the rations they
determine that they've been inside for
approximately three days already
josie then confirms that their
electronics are generally working except
no signals seem to penetrate the bubble
and the compass is going all wonky but
since they're in a state park and headed
toward the shore they just orient
themselves using the sun
and head in a southwestern direction
soon they come across a cute little
boathouse
and do some investigating lina makes
note the beautiful arrangement of
flowers welcoming them appear to be of a
variety of different species and yet
all seem to share the same stem system
which indicates they're all of a single
species
this represents a level of diversity not
found in nature while making these
casual observations josie disappears
some things grabbed her pack so after
they rush in and pull her out she is
essentially unscathed
although as they retreat to a fallback
position it's not clear exactly what got
at her
until a giant old lazy crocodile busts
out of the side of the building
it approaches them slowly and lena is
able to neutralize it by removing its
brain with some carefully placed bullets
in examining the specimen afterward lena
notes similar indications of
interspecies genetic cross breeding
as was seen in the plants despite this
they continue on down river
casual conversation between cassie and
lena reveals that they've all chosen to
come on this unusual mission
because they're all damaged goods in one
way or another and then they emerge into
a clearing where they find the old
headquarters from back when the shimmer
was a little bit smaller the building
appears to be covered with its own local
brand of mutations that lena identifies
as being tumor-like
which is perfect because they're setting
up camp here in the mess hall they find
evidence of a prior expedition also
using the building for shelter there's a
map of the area and a rotation schedule
likely for keeping guard
they also find a ziplock bag that
contains a message for those that follow
they pop it into the camcorder and we
see sergeant kane in more vital times
preparing to do a little elective field
surgery on one of his buddies
a predictable defect of an all-male crew
when they get the trap door open we see
that what's inside is moving
of its own accord this freaks them all
out and anya tries to convince the group
that what they saw was a trick of the
light despite the obvious evidence to
the contrary but ventress heads off to
the pool room where they find the body
in question
now in full bloom and it's mesmerizing
later that night lena becomes restless
and goes to check some of her samples
under the scope
she witnesses that each new cell that
splits off does so in a dramatically
different form
needing some fresh air while she ponders
this she heads out to check on dr
ventress in her little lookout booth
ventress relays her plan to head to the
coast by way of a little town that had
to be evacuated she also offers
condolences about lena's husband going
crazy
understanding now why lena opted not to
reveal her relationship to the group
their deep conversation is interrupted
by a loud noise that wakes the whole
crew lena observes a hole in the fence
but they don't find the culprit forcing
them to lie in weight
in the darkness they fail to see the
giant bear nearby until it noms onto and
drags off shepard the following morning
josie and anja determined the best next
step is to head back
dr ventress however came for answers and
relays her intent to go to the
lighthouse as a group or alone and then
she leaves without them lena agrees with
the others that they should leave
but then flips the script on him by
suggesting they're closer to the exit
via the shoreline at this point so the
lighthouse is actually the quickest way
out regardless
in an interview cut scene we learned
this to be a lie as they proceed through
the woods it's revealed that dr ventress
has terminal cancer
so self-preservation is not her top
priority then they stumble upon one of
shepard's boots and lena has a need to
confirm whether she's dead or alive
so she goes in deep witnessing all
manner of strange natural phenomena and
eventually finds shepard's remains at
the base of a tree so she emerges to
confirm this and they continue on
eventually they arrive at the small town
and take a rest in a field where the
plants appear to have merged with human
dna
here josie the physicist suggests that
the shimmer doesn't just refract the
electromagnetic spectrum but everything
including dna this is how these plants
have human body plans built in
and also implies that their dna is being
reconfigured as they live and breathe
now that they've established their
doomed they find a cozy house to secure
and anya notices some movement beneath
her skin lina continues her candlelit
studies that evening taking a sample
from herself this time and relishing in
its magnificence
she then wakes up later with a gun in
her face and gets violently put back to
sleep by anya then she wakes up again to
find herself and everyone else tied up
and gag
anya begins questioning her about her
relationship with kane and wanting to
figure out if there's any connections or
prior knowledge about how much of a
suicide mission this was
despite her thirst for knowledge she
never does remove any of the gags
she sees this whole operation as a
series of lies and since no one else saw
the bear that snatched shepard
she wonders if they're not actually in a
turning on each other scenario
honestly she makes a strong case for
this as she is actively losing her mind
and turning on her comrades she decides
it's time now for some exploratory
surgery to see who the real people are
but then she hears shepherd crying for
help outside
another one of lena's classic lies
revealed but when she goes out to assist
the rest of them hear screams and then
silence
they're then forced to wait patiently as
a large apparently blind skull-faced
bear lumbers in and sniffs about
in an attempt to figure out if they
might be tasty treats
it attempts to rile them up here we
learn the screams that drew out anya
were actually emanating from the bear's
terrible jowls
having taken on some genetic attributes
from shepherd
but none of it good it seems to fancy a
little nibble of josie's shoulder but
anya comes back in at the last moment to
get her revenge
which truly pisses it off it goes for
her while the rest of them try to break
free and playfully pulls apart some
choice portions of anya's upper body and
face
and then nearly gets a mouthful of lena
when josie manages to break away from
her chair and empties out the monster's
head
after a brief break ventress is now
determined to get to the lighthouse
immediately
before her mind is completely gone as
well the next morning josie and lena
take a brief respite during which lena
confirms the blood check she performed
on herself the prior night indicates
they're all screwed one way or another
josie however has already come to this
conclusion and rather than meeting a
confusingly violent end like everybody
else
she decides to take a peaceful route and
offers herself up to the blooming flower
god of the land
lena then proceeds to the shoreline on
her own and ventures to the lighthouse
through a field of crystalline trees and
human remains
inside she finds the hole of origin and
a charred corpse in front of a camera
a review of the footage shows a variety
of unusual images
and then sergeant kane comes into view
taking a restful position and stating
his confusion
about who or what he was before he
arrived here
unable to bear it he instructs the
cameraman to find lena before setting
off a phosphorous grenade in his lap
and then the cameraman is revealed to be
his duplicate she then hears voices
coming from the hole
and she makes her way in carefully
eventually finding ventress enjoying the
final phase finding closure and having
wanted to discover what was inside the
lighthouse
and now having it inside of her she then
refracts into a being of pure energy
and unimaginable scrum trail essence
from thence forward she exists only in
globular form
her energy droplets then convert
themselves into the infinite sphincter
that
after collecting a minuscule sample from
linum begins to take humanoid form
lena attempts to flee but finds that it
acts as her shadow in its attempt to
learn our ways
it also has no respect we learn for
personal boundaries and very nearly
crushes the life out of her after a few
experiments she seems to get the hang of
this
and casually hands it a phosphorus
grenade which she sets off and then runs
the energy being then staggers and
catches fire to the lighthouse before
returning to its central pedestal
this results in an immolation of the
entire structure which seems to have a
positive impact on the outside world
depending that is on how you define
positivity back at the interview
her interlocutor seeks out some
additional deets about the intentions
and motivations of the being
but lena rightly recognizes that it
didn't seem to have any and may not have
even known she was there
it was just nature being nature you
can't put that in a box
when she takes a sip of her water we get
indication that things may be okay now
and further learn that kane stabilized
after the shimmer disappeared
she goes to him recognizing that her
husband is gone and they share a warm
but empty embrace
i have a website set up where you can
support the channel through donations or
merch
and i'd like to take a moment to give a
huge thanks to my donors memorialized in
the hall of headshots
what's to say i love cosmic horror and
annihilation was fantastic
this one is absolutely worth watching
and owning and you should seek out
adding it to your collection
it was just well done all around if you
enjoyed the video i'd love for you to
become part of the channel by
subscribing
thanks for watching